Okay. We're now going
to take a look at
a specialty area of
Fintech known as
insurtech or the application of
various kinds of technologies
in the insurance industry.
The insurance industry
is huge, it's global,
it's diversified across
applications and subsegments.
According to some
recent calibrations,
Gross Written Premium stood at an
almost $5 trillion
at the end of 2017.
Gross Written Premium is
essentially the amount of
insurance written not including
commissions and some costs.
That premier is growing
fastest in emerging markets.
Net income was estimated by
Ernst &Young to have
grown 23 percent in
2018 versus 14 percent in 2017.
Now, the insurance industry is
a very old and traditional
industry, in fact,
some say contracts that
help people insure
various risks go back as
many as thousands of years.
It's clear, however, that
the advent of modern
technologies is changing and
even some would say disrupting
this stayed industry
via all kinds of
methodologies and mediums.
Wearables, driverless vehicles,
IoT or the Internet of Things,
Big Data, natural language
processing, blockchain,
distributed ledger technologies,
even the possibility of
climate change
affecting those who
are insured along with
many others are adding up
through the avenues of
technology to serve as
a disrupting force.
New technologies are also
offering all kinds of
potential opportunities to do
today's business better in
the industry or to grow markets,
to make better
decisions and address
what we could call
the customer experience,
all coming together as insurtech.
Now, there is no standardized
definition of insurtech.
Some would say that even though
it's disrupting and
revolutionizing
the industry and rapidly
today already changing
the way insurers,
service providers, and ultimately
customers experience insurance.
There is no standard definition.
I like the definition
that SIA put together.
InsurTech can be described as,
"An insurance company,
intermediary,
or value chain segment
component that
utilizes technology to compete
will provide better benefits,
value-added benefits
in the industry."
Now, the ecosystem
of technologies that
are coming to play in the
insurance industry are many,
some of which you've
already probably been
exposed to like blockchain.
Efficient information
exchange, trust,
the ability to write
contracts that are
self-referential and
self-aware and which offer
a certain kind of immutability,
ultimately appropriate
because after
all insurance is essentially
in the form of a contract.
Analytics that help insurers,
their service providers,
underwriters,
and others make better decisions,
taking more from data,
expanding to new data,
augmenting data.
The insurance industry and
the processing of
insurance requires
vast amounts of repetitive tasks
making insurance ripe
for process automation.
Rules-based or potentially
ultimately self-aware,
increasing reliability,
decreasing mistakes,
and ultimately automating what
traditionally has been
a human task oriented area.
Robo advisors who
rely on rules or
other kinds of machine learning
techniques to interact
with customers,
it could be customers
interacting with
technology online or over
the phone either enhancing,
making more immediate or
more accurate customer
interactions.
A very interesting area
known as wearables,
providing data both about
the insured or those who are
related to the insured
all the way back
to insurers helping
them manage risks,
understanding the insured,
perhaps improving
the customer experience
in real-time or in
aggregated way.
Connecting ecosystems which
could be, by the way,
as broad and far-reaching as
social media or based
on data already
collected within
the ecosystem of the
insured linking back to
the entire value chain
of insurance.
Understanding the client
better to better
profile their risks
and potentially spot
both service lapses and
rising risks in a more accurate
way or in a faster way.
Technologies like
drone technologies
or visual processing
technologies,
using for aerial imagery,
remote assessment,
and integrity of images
and imagery used in
the insurance underwriting
process or for claims.
Artificial intelligence, AI,
including natural
language processing,
mimicking the human capacity to
process language, to learn,
to extract patterns not easily
seen using traditional
technologies including
even advanced statistics and
ultimately making
a customer's experience
and an insurers decision-making
process better.